---
layout: post
title: How to become millionaire
tags: compounding
description: 'How to become millionaire'
comments: false
---
Chuck Akre is a money manager who I have started following recently. In most of his public interactions, he talks about a
  hypothetical penny that doubles everyday for a month. He asks what would be the worth of the penny
  end of the month?

  I tried this on myself and my friends. None of us answered it correctly. Not even close!. Even more interesting,
   when the correct answer was known, it wasn't believable at all. That correct answer is over 10 million dollars!
  Check out the youtube video of Chuck Akre at the bottom of the page!

  Human mind has difficulty grasping the power of compounding. So we need a short cut for a metal math. That short cut is
   "Rule of 72". It essentially helps us estimate the time it takes to double the money for a given compounded rate of return.

    For example,
    * At 10% compounding, it takes 7 years to double an initial investment
    * At 20% compounding, it takes 4 years to double initial investment

These two are important numbers to remember. Because the 10% is the long term (50+ years) average return of US stock market.
And that 20% is the average returns generated by Warren Buffett for over 50 years.

  So, with these numbers in mind, I wanted to see what it takes to become a millionaire. All I want is simple round numbers
  to keep in mind while making investment decisions. After trying out some combinations [here](http://www.moneychimp.com/calculator/compound_interest_calculator.htm),

    I figured out the plan,
      * At 11% rate, starting with and adding 25K$ every year for 15 years makes you a millionaire.
      * What if I magically get Warren Buffet's fire power?
        At 20%, starting with and adding 25k$ every year makes you a millionaire in 11 years!

And the sweet part is compounding gets better with age! ie while the first million takes 15 years subsequent ones come faster!

In summary, 400,000$ is what it takes to get to be a millionaire in 15 years at near market returns!
That seems doable to many! Probably many are already doing it.
I wish I had known this 15 years ago!

##Reference:
  + [Chuck Akre's compounding video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRCjdAPIlZg)


